---
title: Hacking Web Applications
layout: module
---

# Hacking Web Applications

## Exercise 1: Nikto

`Nikto` is a web enumeration and vulnerability scanner. You can check for dangerous files, programs, outdated servers or frameworks, security misconfigurations, and more.

Run `nikto` on the websploit host `10.6.6.23`:

`nikto -h http://10.6.6.23`

## Exercise 2: Web Application Recon

"Fuzzing" is a way of finding bugs using automation. It involves providing a wide range of invalid and unexpected data into an application then monitoring the application for exceptions. The invalid data used to fuzz an application could be crafted for a specific purpose, or randomly generated. The goal is to induce unexpected behavior of an application (like crashes and memory leaks) and see if it leads to an exploitable bug. In general, fuzzing is particularly useful for exposing bugs like memory leaks, control flow issues, and race conditions.

There are many different kinds of fuzzing, each optimized for testing a specific type of application. Web application fuzzing is the field of fuzzing web applications to expose common web vulnerabilities, like injection issues, XSS, and more.

There are “fuzzers” that allow you to discover files and directories in web applications. Examples of these fuzzers include:

* dirbuster
* gobuster
* ffuf
* feroxbuster

Other web tools also contain fuzzing functionality, including:

* OWASP ZAP
* Burp Suite
* nikto
* nuclei

## Exercise 2a: Recon with `gobuster`

`Gobuster` is a brute-force tool, written in Go and a more modern alternative to `Dirbuster`.

* URIs (directories and files) in web sites
* DNS subdomains
* Virtual hostnames on target web servers
* Open Amazon S3 buckets

Tools like `gobuster` use "wordlists", or a file that contains many (many!) words that are used to find directories, files, crack passwords, etc.

In Kali, you can see installed wordlists by opening a terminal and running `locate wordlists`. Additionally, we have cloned the SecLists Github repo to `/root/SecLists`:

> SecLists is the security tester's companion. It's a collection of multiple types of lists used during security assessments, collected in one place. List types include usernames, passwords, URLs, sensitive data patterns, fuzzing payloads, web shells, and many more. The goal is to enable a security tester to pull this repository onto a new testing box and have access to every type of list that may be needed.

Try running `gobuster` on a Websploit host like `10.6.6.21`. You can use any wordlist you want, but I would recommend using something in `/root/SecLists` or `/usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/`:

`gobuster dir -w /path/to/wordlist 10.6.6.21`

## Exercise 2b: Recon with `ffuf`

`ffuf` is a fast web fuzzer written in Go. It works by injecting payloads into HTTP requests and analyzing the responses. It can be used for:

1. Virtual Host Discovery: By fuzzing the Host HTTP header, you can discover virtual hosts on the server.
2. Subdomain Discovery: You can discover subdomains by fuzzing the domain part of the URL. 3. Directory Discovery: By fuzzing the path of the URL, you can discover hidden directories.
4. Parameter Discovery: By fuzzing the parameter names/values, you can discover hidden parameters and functionality.
5. HTTP Header Fuzzing: By fuzzing HTTP headers, you can discover hidden headers or insecure configurations.

FFUF is known for its speed and flexibility. It supports multiple HTTP methods, customizable HTTP headers, auto-calibration to ignore false positives, and many other features that make it a powerful tool for web penetration testing.

Run `ffuf` to enumerate directories in any of the applications running in the WebSploit containers (e.g. 10.6.6.23, 10.6.6.22, etc.)

`ffuf -w /path/to/wordlist -u http://<IP-ADDR>/FUZZ -c -v`

* `-w` gives the path to the wordlist. Use any wordlist you want, or use `/usr/share/wordlists/dirbuster/directory-list-2.3-medium.txt`
* `-u` gives the target URL. Put the `FUZZ` keyword wherever you want to fuzz.
* `-c` gives colored output.
* `-v` makes the output verbose.
